that's like um so good morning my name
is David and I don't know some of you
are a lot of you actually um so I
thought it'd be a good idea if by way of
introduction just know that my research
focus is on the history and development
of spherical media tools and
environments have been doing this for
longer that I'd like to think and I
really explore the potential for
cultivating new ways of seeing the world
by expanding our perceptual capabilities
but like Aaron's talk yesterday this is
not going to be a talk about virtual
reality this morning I'm going to look
beyond the kind of current bubble of
immersive media to examine the broader
implications of spherical metaphors and
shaping different perceptions of the
world not unlike some of the things that
fred was just talking about and
ironically i'm going to try to do this
on this big rectangle which really it's
not really is to doing so i want to
start by telling a story kind of a
meta-narrative so for countless
generations cultures around the world
have turned to this this apparent dome
of the sky to make sense the world it's
been widely perceived as a spherical
container in large part due to the
spherical perspective of human vision
and the apparent rotations of the sky
that we can see with time-lapse
photography pivot around this kind of
central point the central axis of the
pole star and the so-called access
Monday was widely interpreted as a
portal to the heavens and cultures all
over the world our ancestors very
survival depended on their ability to
correlate these celestial and
terrestrial events to anticipate the
different cycles of life to synchronize
with them the structures the flows and
they employed lots of different
mediation techniques to symbolize lunar
and celestial movements often kind of
intimately connected to fertility cycles
wayfinding hunting-gathering time
keeping all these different
necessary thanks for human existence
these recurring spherical tropes can be
found embodied within the design of
dwellings domiciles across time and
they're integrated with narratives and
rituals artifacts that really provided a
kind of critical orientation to the
cosmic dynamics that were experienced as
being animated and alive particularly
within these animistic cultures and this
perceived vault of the sky continued to
be emulated within the most sacred
environments have lots of civilizations
often aligned to the stars and today the
symbolism of the spherical macrocosm
centered on the access monday is
continually embodied within many
significant religious structures here we
see within cathedrals stupas mosques etc
but around 2,500 years ago a radical new
vision appeared in ancient Greece Plato
also envisioned the universe like
animistic cultures is kind of a living
psirico cosmos rotating around a central
axis but in his account of creation of
the world in the Timaeus he described
God as a rational architect at Demiurge
whose mind and intention the human
intellect could really imagine and
understand and comprehend and he
imagined viewing the world from the
outside from the outside of the sphere
as opposed to being on the inside of the
living cosmos those from this
transcendent perspective of the Gods I
view as we've come to know it that this
totalizing notion of cosmos and universe
first appeared a student Aristotle then
extended this abstraction further
proposing that the pursuit of
theoretical knowledge was really one of
the highest callings of philosophers and
is but I physics he really talked about
this being governed by a kind of
dualistic non contradictory logic that
he'd laid out in some some great detail
that is still with us today and he
described Aristotle described the
universe a series of perfect crystalline
spheres rotated by the hand of an
unmoved mover as he called it around a
static earth this view was later
famously developed by Ptolemy and in his
physics Aristotle envision these fears
separating the feminine Earth from the
masculine heavens
insisting that mother earth was lowly
and corruptible while father heaven was
not surprisingly divine eternal and
immutable and this vision of a masculine
spherical cosmos was later appropriated
by the medieval Catholic Church
Protestant churches as well replacing
the unmoved mover with the Christian God
and they retained the idea that even
though earth was at the center of the
universe it was actually the worst place
to be we often confuse anthracis ism
with geocentrism but this was actually
kind of a some have called a Diablo
centric universe hell was at the center
in the 14th century meister eckhart
reintroduced this kind of ancient
hermetic metaphor of God as an infinite
sphere whose Center was everywhere and
circumference was nowhere and then a
century later Nicholas of Cuza classic
monk transferred this to an evocative
metaphor for the physical universe
itself preparing really an understanding
a metaphorical understanding of a new
way of seeing the cosmos and this kind
of paradoxical notion of the sinner
being everywhere and the circumference
being nowhere it's laid the conceptual
foundations for nicolaus copernicus to
imagine a moving earth like Plato he
believed the human intellect could know
the mind of God and in his 1543 book on
the revolutions of the heavenly spheres
Copernicus proposed that the central
fire of the Sun was the center of the
cosmos around which of course the earth
rotated and this has been discussed and
analyzed at nauseam generally under the
rubric of the Copernican revolution and
Thomas Kuhn famously coined the now much
abused term paradigm shift to describe
the subsequent impact of Copernicus
sun-centered universe on the European
imagination this heliocentric vision
profoundly challenged the intuitive
perception that the sky rotated around a
static earth it not only cast doubt on
the basic tenets of Aristotle's physics
but also on the very reliability of our
senses
and the idea of heaven is a physical
place excuse me beyond the stars
gradually dissolved this is a one of the
later cosmography you can see in
Copernicus's illustrations that they
were contained within the outer rings
the entire cosmos and then later some
other cosmography first were coming
along and imagining stars outside of
that that outer sphere of the heavens
and began to appear that the entire
universe was made of the same
corruptible elements as Earth the
so-called Copernican or mediocrity
principal took hold with the
philosophical assumption that there's
nothing special or unique about
humanity's home planet so it was already
seen as kind of the worst place to be
but then things got really existentially
angst-ridden because it seemed like it
was just the same everywhere there was
no heaven to go to instead of sort of
dethroning earth it sort of death row in
heaven and over time new observational
instruments dramatically extended the
range of human perception resulting in
kind of an explosion of specialized
knowledge and techniques it also quicken
the dissolution of the heavenly spheres
in the European imagination in place of
these fears space and time were
gradually quantified as mathematical
extract abstractions existing
independently of the lived environment
the lived experience of the world and
understandable solely through the human
intellect and the predictive power of
these mathematical equations and the
rhetorical power of these mechanical
devices reinforce the idea of a
predictable clockwork universe that was
no longer alive but could be completely
comprehended by the rational human mind
and as Peter slaughtered I called it the
immune system of the spheres disappeared
the dualistic distinction between heaven
and earth was replaced by the
strengthening divisions between mind and
matter subject and object and most
importantly today Humanity in nature new
cartographic techniques also homogenized
live places into a globalized world we
could kind of imagine everywhere as just
being nowhere and this gradual conquest
of the world as a picture was what
Martin Heidegger really referred to as
the fundamental event of the modern age
and media
Isis played a pretty critical role in
how it was in training our thought as
well because the linear projections of
devices like the camera obscura and the
magic lantern provided new models for
understanding perception and cognition
they were adopted as explanatory
metaphors to describe how the external
physical world enters in through the
windows of the senses into the dark room
of the skull and as natural philosophy
gradually morphed into modern science
increasingly it seemed that the best way
to understand nature was by reducing it
to its component parts reductionism
these abstractions that externalities of
science were really adopted by by global
economic systems as well over time which
gradually reduced the earth to these
kind of physical resources and
accelerated a kind of disenchantment
with the seemingly mediocre planet and
dreams of escaping to other more perfect
worlds became a recurring trope within
the narrative of modern progress and in
the 19th century the quest for this
disembodied god's eye view really became
central to the belief that science could
ultimately make sense of the entire
machine and absolutely divorce objective
facts from subjective experience and
values so that's kind of the humanities
portion of today's class but I find it's
important to actually review this kind
of stuff because like it's a lot of its
addressed you know and has been
addressed for longer than we've been
alive within within humanities Science
and Technology studies but a lot of we
are all living in radically different
worlds there's no telling how much of us
have actually encountered some of that I
know I didn't and so I was very
interested in the role that the sphere
played in shaping the way that we think
about the world and so kind of jump
forward a little bit by the 20th century
the sphere had returned that that the
complexity of this quest became apparent
when Zeiss engineers started trying to
emulate the night sky and started to
project on the celestial screen of the
first planetarium the the sort of
inseparability of subjectivity and
objectivity became increasingly up
parent and by the way you can see up
here the Zeiss engineers i think it was
in 1923 actually developed the first
what we now call geodesic dome that book
mr. fuller later got credit for it
seemed he developed it autonomously but
the engineers developed as kind of the
strongest structure for domes but their
system this Ptolemaic Earth's interview
of the moving sky became the hit with
audiences immersing them within the
archetypal architecture of the firmament
and though they attempted this kind of
mundane looking kaepernick and
planetarium to provide a more objective
view of looking at the solar system from
the outside it couldn't compete with the
effective visual immersion of the
Ptolemaic counterpart in throughout the
1930s ice installed planetariums across
the world particularly in the United
States and funders hoped that they would
induce a sense of cosmic unity again
kind of back to the the surround idea
amongst their audiences at the
dedication of the Hayden Planetarium in
New York City one speaker addressed the
hope that visitors might better
comprehend what he called the common
fate of the human race in one sphere
achill boat out upon the boundless
ethereal see 1939 with the introduction
of film projection into domes the
combination of this Ptolemaic and
Copernican views finally seemed possible
and at the 1939 World's Fair the Hayden
Planetarium teamed up with the long
jeans watch company and a guy named Fred
Wahl or who later developed cinerama to
develop what they call the cinema of
basin or the theater of space and time
visitors were taken on this kind of
15-minute simulated cosmic voyage with
edge blended film projectors flying
beyond the skyline of New York passed
rivers on Mars and out towards the
spiral arms of the Milky Way galaxy
which had had have recently been
understood as not the containment of the
entire cosmos and at the outbreak of
World War two however the planetarium
production stopped and the Zeiss optical
factories were repurposed for weaponry
for the Third Reich the technology of
the theater of space and time was also
transformed into a gunnery trainer for
British and American pilots but after
the Third Reich's demise the US
government imported german scientists
into the u.s.
and one of these famously was Verner von
Braun who who became chief architect of
the u.s. space program after the war the
American planetariums began to expand
their programming focusing on dramatic
entertaining concepts as well as ideals
of space travel and in the early 1950s
the American Museum at the Hayden
Planetarium again at the American piece
of Natural History hosted a series of
lectures on all the ways the world might
be destroyed by astronomical phenomena
which included vivid descriptions of
catastrophes via asteroids meteorites
global flooding global drought and they
also worked with Verner von braun to
organize this symposia to further
establish a cosmology centered around
colonizing outer space von Braun's ideas
were subsequently promoted within
popular media throughout the 50s to turn
them into reality and that was further
amplified by von Braun's collaboration
with Walt Disney who produced a series
of television shows to convince
Americans of the feasibility and the
need to colonize space as the next
frontier and here's one of my favorite
quotes from that managed space series
are one of my favorite Clips ladies and
gentlemen here is your host Walt Disney
Thank You Garko in this exciting age
when everyone seems to be talking about
the future possibilities of space travel
there's much speculation on what we will
discover when we visit other worlds will
we find planets with only a low farm a
vegetable life or will there be
mechanical robots controlled by super
intelligent beings
one of the most fascinating fields of
modern science deals with the
possibility of life on other planets
this is our story and indeed it became
our story as the Space Age took root in
the 20th century mechanistic science was
augmented by spectacular tales of
science fiction ancient visions of
transcending to the heavens were
replaced by dreams of escaping to other
actual worlds the nineteen sixty two
World's Fair I know not human was there
I think some other folks were the United
States government and Boeing aerospace
hired cinerama Fred Waller again to
create the ultimate cosmic journey to
garner the support of the American
public for funding the space race the
result was journey to the stars a
ten-minute simulated exploration of
galaxies and planets attended by over
seven million visitors over the course
of the fair two years later in New York
cinerama once again replicated this
cosmic Voyager with to the moon and
beyond which was the star attraction at
the 1964 new york world's fair but while
these efforts kind of continued with in
the 20th century for visualizing in many
ways kind of scientific ideas we find a
parallel history of spherical immersion
explicitly designed to explore more the
more metaphysical inner space and this
kind of flagship of this project was the
rosicrucian planetarium here in San Jose
which was the first American design
planetarium that opened in 1939 called
the theater of the sky it was claimed
that visitors could explore the
mysteries of ancient mythologies
connecting the macrocosm to the
microcosm and then later at the morrison
planetarium in Golden Gate Park
pioneering countercultural explorations
of interspace were taking up taken up in
the 1950s with what we're called the
vortex performances sound artist Henry
Jacobs and filmmaker children Belson you
sound and light to develop a jacobs
called a new form of theater based on
the combination of electronics optics
and architecture setting the stage for
later psychedelic light
by the mid-1960s filmmaker Stan Van Der
Beek who was inspired by his time as a
student with Buckminster Fuller at Black
Mountain College was developing his
movie drum in upstate New York he
referred to it as a rudimentary
prototype for an international
audio-visual research center designed to
develop a new nonverbal international
picture language sound familiar in 1969
even Morton heilig who's widely regarded
this kind of the grandfather of virtual
reality patented the concept of a
multi-sensory spherical experience
theater and a year later immersion was
once again pushed to kind of it's
reflexive extreme by the quite famous
experiments in arts and technologies
world expo pavilion in japan sponsored
by pepsi engineer billy cluver described
this is the theater of the future a
living responsive environment in a total
instrument to be played by the
participants in kind of ecstatic states
of cybernetic bliss and at the turn of
the century of this century the quest
for transcendence returned in kind of
higher and more technological forms than
ever imagined has taken up by a new
generation of immersive cosmic voyagers
led by the flagship this time of the
Hayden Planetarium and once again it
built on this recurring trope of flights
through the heavens so that these
digital planetariums could continue to
cultivate public interest in space
exploration by purporting to provide
scientifically accurate tours to the
cosmos when I went to the Hayden
archives and I was looking for the
information about the 1939 world's fair
nobody that had worked on this project
knew about the project exactly sixty
years earlier that had almost an
identical flight path so there was
something quite interesting about the
ways in which this was evoking a
particular imagination and within you
know the single generation of all of
this happening we actually did achieve
escape velocity I mean we traveled other
planets which the moon but when our
probes arrived on Mars there were no
intelligent robots to be found other
than our own and not only were there no
as Disney called them low forms of
vegetable life which you kind of set as
the lowest common denominator there was
no life at all and if you've been
following the Maven mission lately you
know the findings of actual conditions
for life
Mars are getting more and more harsh and
really thanks to the Space Age thanks to
industrialization we've actually
discovered that we can't take the
conditions for life for granted and as
we've been dreaming of life on other
worlds and escaping from this one we've
been transforming many parts of our own
planet into alien landscapes we don't
have to really go that far to see what
inhospitable environments look like just
go to West Virginia close to where I'm
from where ancient mountains are being
decimated by the coal industry or to
Alberta in Canada where wild boreal
forests are being raised to access the
tar sands in the past decade resilient
scientists have really envisioned a new
kind of sphere to quantify many of the
critical thresholds of planetary life
support systems not just climate change
but also biodiversity loss ocean
acidification fresh water use and many
many other interconnected issues and
their words were tipping towards the
unknown engaged in a high-stakes game of
unwittingly crossing planetary
boundaries that define a safe operating
space for humanity and as has been noted
we're discovering that the economy is a
wholly owned subsidiary of the planetary
biosphere not the other way around
according to the global footprint
Network we've been going into ecological
debt every year for the past four
decades exceeding the capacity of
Earth's ability to regenerate the
resources were consuming and in an
ironically anthropocentric gesture the
term Anthropocene the age of humans has
been proposed to describe the current
geologic epoch I'm curious how many of
you have heard this term I'm impressed
generally I've mentioned this before in
talks and it's extraordinary like how
much press this has gotten but it still
isn't a widely understood concept so
these epochs are generally defined by
the ability to see clear boundaries
between layers of rocks and the idea of
the Anthropocene is that steam engines
the Industrial Revolution nuclear
explosions thermoelectric power highways
and and increasingly what we
heard of yesterday is the stack the
planetary computational skill systems
are leaving an indelible chemical
impression on the geology of our planet
the notion of the Anthropocene captures
the spirit of this ambivalent era when
increased access to modern conveniences
have been accompanied by widespread
ecological degradation and paradoxically
the notion of the Anthropocene also
effectively dissolves the dualistic
distinction between humans and nature
that was really at a cornerstone of
modern science they call them
social-ecological systems so some of you
even pointed out that this is not really
so much a function of humanity as it is
a function of kind of hyper neoliberal
capitalism proposing that it might be
more effectively and more more
accurately called the capitulo scene and
this ability to modify ecosystems at a
planetary scale evidence is a profound
conundrum underlying how we direct the
power of human ingenuity the radical
fragmentation of knowledge has really
made it very difficult to comprehend or
make sense of any kind of big picture
because they're now over 8,000 academic
disciplines 50,000 specialized journals
and over a million articles published
every year in this visualization of
academic references from UCSD kind of
shows how rarely disciplines draw on
knowledge from other fields within their
publications so buck mr. fuller he was
going to be dropped out of this talk
because trying to talk about him within
the span of 30 minutes is pretty
impossible but he anticipated many of
the consequences of this excessive
reductionism abstraction and
specialization and in no uncertain yet
often maddeningly verbose terms he saw
the industrial technologies the Space
Age as critical for extending the senses
to perceive what he called the
ninety-nine point nine percent of
phenomena occurring beyond the visible
the audible the smella Bolin the
touchable realms and as an antidote he
developed a more integrative approach
that he called comprehensive
anticipatory designed science describing
its practitioners primarily himself as
an emerging synthesis of artists
inventor mechanic objective economist
and evolutionary strategist and he
addressed this in the introduction to G
youngbloodz expanded cinema he contended
that the media arts and technology media
technologies would play a critical role
in what he called the design science
revolution he insisted that Network
technologically assisted experiential
learning environments were key to
essential reorientation to our cosmic
and planetary home he also insisted that
we live on a spaceship this was probably
one of the things that he was most known
for and he was really encouraging us to
in his kind of famous framing take our
responsibilities for being astronauts
aboard Spaceship Earth and today the
fruits of this industrial age in the
Space Age are really indeed providing
more dynamic views so the idea of the
whole earth is this image that
transformed where is credited with
transforming consciousness in the 1960s
it's kind of radically changing because
it's not just kind of a static 2d image
but we have webs now of Earth observing
and communication satellites that are
helping us to understand our home in new
ways the providing profound insights
into the impacts of human civilization
across all these different types of
scales spatial spectral temporal as well
as giving us the opportunity to
visualize all kinds of information these
eyes and the skies are really allowing
us to directly experience as fuller
anticipated invisible phenomena
utilizing the data and the capacity for
computing power and as a consequence we
keep discovering previously invisible
interactions that conspire to support
life here not the least of which is the
Earth's magnetic field which we now
understand is a function of the moon's
gravity I think it's something like 3.7
terawatts constantly that we're getting
just from gravity gravity and spin
that's generating this effective in a
force field protecting our planet from
all of these solar winds that are
constantly bombarding us without this we
wouldn't have the atmosphere we wouldn't
have the oceans by visualizing these
previously invisible patterns and
relationships we can start to gain a
deeper appreciation of what fuller would
call the synergistic conditions for life
the kind of emergent properties that are
unpredicted by the sum of the parts for
instance satellite
data of the surface flows from NASA as
well as some wind currents show how
fresh water moves and vortices between
the oceans in the atmosphere and these
currents are also distributing solar
energy to regulate the Earth's climate
the planetary temperatures are equalized
by the cold air and surface water is
moving towards the equator while warm
warm air and water moves towards the
poles of course this is kind of the
concern with Greenland that if Greenland
goes starts to cool down this this
conveyor belt that essentially Europe
freezes over we also now know that Earth
is the only planet in the habitable zone
of our own solar system that means that
we have the necessary temperatures to
support abundant liquid water on its
surface but everybody's familiar with
this solar system model right like
everybody recognized this as the solar
system it's sorry I'd really don't mean
to be condescending but my mind gets
blown constantly at how much I don't
know like how ignorant I am by trying to
engage this material because these are
all like there's so many things that are
not part of the current educational
system that that is extraordinary so
we're all being taught this incredibly
outdated model of the solar system
fuller attempted to actually relate this
in his book synergetics where he was
arguing the Sun actually moves like why
in all of these models do we never see
the Sun moving so we now really
understand that the Sun is orbiting
around the galactic core of the Milky
Way at about half a million miles an
hour with us in tow and our planet
really does start to resemble a kind of
regenerative living spaceship I mean
it's not even so metaphorical it's just
a really neat science fiction trope and
increasingly media arts and technology
can play a critical role in accelerating
our attunement to these complex
ecological patterns that are both inside
and without and this potential has
really been driven home most
spectacularly by the cosmic atlas
developed by the Hayden Planetarium it
was inspired by charles and ray eames
power of ten
curated by the Hayden and so basically
this is I'm going to zoom out in one
minute something that I usually do in
about an hour but it's going to start
increasing in speed as we're zooming out
and it's as well as compressing space so
that we can begin to see the dynamics of
the solar system still not taking to
account the movement of the Sun but
we're at one hour away from home we're
at one light day we begin to see the
constellations but it's a 3d map of the
stars you start to see the
constellations and their true
relationship to how we observe them we
see the radio sphere in space we begin
to zoom out like in the new york world's
fair outside of our galaxy we start to
see all of these galactic surveys each
containing billions of stars to the
point where 100 million light years
finally we get to this large-scale
structure of galaxies and the places
that we can't actually see that we
failed to map to the point where we
actually pop outside of our own cosmic
horizon the Cosmic Microwave Background
got that do you notice anything funny so
I first saw this at Burning Man um we
did a project and we're sitting in a
dome we made and I had this company
we're making these lenses in the guy
Carter who curated this thing was like
hey company you know come help us up and
when he got to this point I was like
what the hell okay this is another one
of those things like am i that ignorant
like what's going on with this and so I
spent a number of years really trying to
understand but what this what this is is
really pushing the transcendent view of
this god's eye this god's eye view this
transcendent dream to its virtual
extreme and we encountered this irony of
really cosmic proportions that within
this new cosmic model which back of the
napkin sketches is about 10 billion
dollars worth of scientific research
earth is at the center surrounded by
this spherical horizon that we are in
what astronomers call our own
observational center of space-time which
makes a lot of sense if you think about
it it's it's an inevitable artifact of
attempting to map and model phenomena
through the technological extensions of
our senses we are situated in this
particular place in this particular time
and is
light from phenomena reaches us it's all
non time'll taneous light has a speed
limit so we're seeing things further and
further back in the past the further out
we look and we're also looking all
around us so we're creating this kind of
omnidirectional view or in laymen's VR
terms this is basically a spherical
panorama right but it's limited by the
speed of light which which really means
that this neo geocentric cosmic model
embodies the medieval paradox of the
infinite sphere that the center is
everywhere that there's a self conscious
observer this just happens to be our
Center and the circumference is nowhere
it's really an illusion of the sphere
created by our efforts to map the
earliest light coming at us post the Big
Bang at least of course according to
modern cosmology and one of the most
interesting aspects of this that I found
is that we also have to really consider
earth as our ecological center that it's
it's our true access Monday that the
more we look out the more we're having
to look in the more we're having to
understand all of these synergistic
connections and relationships that are
on this planet as we've attempted to
domesticate the universe we've
discovered the need to really begin
reorienting ourselves to our cosmic and
planetary home because the concept of
the Anthropocene really does dissolve
that human nature boundary we need to
question these fundamental paradigm
attic assumptions that are still driving
in particular not science so much
because science has been adapting to the
complexity and the emergence and all
kinds of things but the global economic
system it's still based on this idea of
scarcity and linearity that these are
the very things that Fuller was
challenging and our species collective
future is really dependent on our
ability to integrate the technologies
that we create into the regenerative
capacity and the living systems of this
planet and I was going to end there but
I thought it was sort of insightful to
when I when I when I run across this
this definition from fuller again of
Technology because it's it's another one
of those tricky terms and he defines
technology as this and it's
complexities of design integrity the
universe is technology the technology
evolved by man is thus far amateurish
compared to the elegance of non-human ly
contrived regeneration man does not
spontaneously recognized technology
other than his own so he speaks of the
rest as something he ignorant Lee calls
nature and so that idea I think is one
of the most important thought forms of
the 21st century that as we start to
look around and we start to study these
these cycles and the regenerative
patterns all around us we start to
understand and mediate reality across
all these different scales the one of
the most important things if not the
most important things we could be doing
as media artists i think is to help a
tune our consciousness to the nature of
what is required to exist within these
scales of living systems these nested
scales that we need to be adding value
to not degenerating but actively
participating within the regeneration
and since unbeknownst to me Barry
actually posted this to the the front
page of this conference website I
thought it'd be helpful to sort of
invite you to participate in the
buckminster fuller challenge which this
is a project we've been doing for the
past nine years at the buckminster
fuller institute that's designed to meet
the goal of what he called the world
game that he was looking for projects
tapping into these regenerative
technologies that could help design a
world that would work for one hundred
percent of humanity in the shortest
possible time through spontaneous
cooperation without ecological offense
but the disadvantage of anyone and in
terms of an intention it's it's over the
years really become one of my favorite
mantras and last year we received
submissions from over a hundred
different countries it's an incredible
community of people and I would really
love to engage anyone here that's
interested in learning more because what
we're really really missing is mediation
and the stories and the experiments of
how it is we begin to visualize what
this looks like because these are
extraordinary systemic projects but
they're so busy doing their things that
they don't have generally the skills and
the chops to actually it
explain the systemic integrative nature
of what they're up to thanks